Ryan Miller
Hort Question for the Plant Porners. I often read about species or genera that have flower color ranging across the spectrum "except for X". It seems like it's usually blue. Is there a scientific term for that?
http://plantlust.com/plants/gentiana-x-macaulayi-kingfisher/

Gentiana x macaulayi 'Kingfisher'| plant lust
plantlust.com
Asiatic Gentian with big deep blue trumpets on this mat forming beauty. Rich moist acidic soil is best for this late summer-fall bloomer. Outrageous in bloom.
Like ·  · Unfollow Post · Share · Friday at 11:09pm
William McClenathan and 4 others like this.

Ross Bolwell Sacre bleu perhaps! :-)
Yesterday at 12:54am · Like ·  7

Andy Sudbrock Mendel's Blueballs?
Yesterday at 6:20am via mobile · Like ·  1

Ann Amato-Buttitta I'm a bit confused by the question.
23 hours ago · Like

Margo Rigby e.g.? colors ranging from violet to pink excluding blue-is that what you mean, Ryan?
23 hours ago · Like ·  1

Margo Rigby ‎'these colors, except blue?
23 hours ago · Like ·  1

Steve Hill serendipity
18 hours ago · Like
Ryan Miller that's right Margo. scientists have a term for every observable phenomenon, I thought they might have have one for this why some colors are especially rare in flowers, like true blue or torqoise.
18 hours ago · Like ·  1

Vice Grip I know there's a term - sorry can't help you yet cause I need to ask a friend of mine in optical studies at NASA. My dad worked in optical theory at NASA, too, so I met this colleague of his at my dad's funeral. My dad wrote books....I coul...
See More
17 hours ago · Like ·  4

Joseph Tychonievich Hmm... well, the most relevant term I can think of is pollination syndrome, though that is a bit of a stretch. Pollination syndrome refers to the process of flower evolution to work well their pollinators. Thanks to hummingbirds, we get lot...
See More
17 hours ago · Like ·  1

Sharee Solow very cool background Vice Grip, so many fields of expertise in the world
16 hours ago · Like ·  1

Joseph Tychonievich Thinking more about this, the fact that there are so few "true blue" flowers may have a linguistic aspect as well, as the boundaries of colors are defined by language. For example, pink is to red what sky blue is to navy blue, yet in Englis...
See More
16 hours ago · Like ·  3

Andy Sudbrock BBC says, "Blue is rare in living nature as it is a colour that is associated with organic molecules in alkaline conditions: few living systems have an alkaline chemistry. The morning glory flower, for instance, starts off the day an intens...
See More
16 hours ago · Like ·  4

Joseph Tychonievich Sorry to completely nerd out there...
16 hours ago · Like ·  5

Joseph Tychonievich Andy, good point about anthocyanins and pH. That's why it has been so hard to even genetically engineer blue roses. Though if there had been evolutionary pressure for true blue, I don't think that would have stopped them from developing. I must also add that the example of hydrangeas are an exception, the blue-pink shift in their flowers isn't due to cellular pH but rather aluminum availability in the soil.
16 hours ago · Like ·  2

Vice Grip Anybody surprised that Joseph nerded out, raise yer hands! C'mon, anybody! Okay, again, anybody surprised that Joseph nerded out? You in the back? Wuh? No, and I'm not repeating the question. Okay...for the LAST time...was anybody.....or ANYONE.... Surprised that Joseph nerded out? Nobody??? Okay, Joseph...yer safe. But the dude in the trench coat at the rear wants yer digits.
16 hours ago · Like ·  4

Hayes Jackson i though phalaenopsis liked acidic conditions....they are my favoritest of all the blue flowers.....
16 hours ago · Like ·  5

Vice Grip Someone...cut some switches for Hayes. We're gonna' rassle him to the woodshed. Fer 'is own gud...
16 hours ago · Like ·  3

Vice Grip An' our amusement an' depravity...
16 hours ago · Like ·  4

Vice Grip Sigh....when did we get to be such a mean people? Seriously, I'd like to celebrate the date.
16 hours ago · Like ·  3

John Boggan The exceedingly obscure botanical term you're looking for is "acaerulic" ("acoerulic" a common orthographic variant, and in classical botanical Latin it's "acærulic"). There is a genus of plants, all the species of which have blue flowers, except for one whose specific epithet is "acaerulea". An even more obscure term is "acaerulescens", meaning a flower that starts out blue but loses its color.
13 hours ago · Like ·  11

Joseph Tychonievich OMG John, that is my new favorite word! Love it!
13 hours ago · Like ·  1

Andy Sudbrock Boo Yah!
13 hours ago · Like ·  1

Sharee Solow whoa, impressive, would leave we mere hort mortals in the botanic dust
13 hours ago · Like ·  2

Ann Amato-Buttitta Ryan, I am so glad you convinced me to join this group. I loved following this all day.
12 hours ago · Like ·  1

William McClenathan acaerulescens balls...there's gotta be a great joke in there people. I'm just too tired to come up with it right now...Vice Grip? :)
9 hours ago · Like ·  2

Diana Politika Geesh....I hope he had to think about that. Quite frightening if he came up with it off the top of his head. :-)
4 hours ago · Like ·  1

Andy Sudbrock ‎"and then, after decades of groundbreaking work cloistered in the protection and celibacy of the monastery walls, Gregor Mendel finally succumbed to the fatal acaerulian blue balls."
2 hours ago via mobile · Like ·  4

Vice Grip Oh, puhleez, chillun. Too easy. Besides, that's not the term I'm thinking of. Mine is an opticians colour theorist term. One of those "event horizon" kind of things. If you know what a 'blue shift' is, I'm in that physics arena.
about an hour ago · Like ·  2

Guy Meacham ‎>>Alana Holste What happens when it becomes taller than your ladder?
You buy a taller ladder :^)..
58 minutes ago · Like ·  1

Vice Grip You wait for ice storms. I get my best pruning done after ice storms.
50 minutes ago · Like ·  2

Vice Grip And I like to tie highly inappropriate items to the tops of trees just to baffle morons.
49 minutes ago · Like ·  2
Ryan Miller exactly the kind of nerding out I was hoping for. It's going to take a me a bit to follow up on all the scientific comments. thanks all!
a few seconds ago · Like

